___________________________________________________________________________

**Introduction**

1. Technical Analysis is not bound by its scope. The concepts of TA can be applied
across any asset class as long as it has a time series data
2. Few core assumptions.
	1. Markets discount everything
	2. The how is more important than why
3. Price moves in trends
4. History tends to repeat itself
5. A good way to summarise the daily trading action is by marking the open, high, low
and close prices usually abbreviated as OHLC

___________________________________________________________________________

**Chart Types**

1. Conventional chart type cannot be used for technical analysis as we need to plot 4
data points simultaneously
2. Line chart can be used to interpret trends but besides that no other information
can be derived.
3. Bar charts lacks visual appeal and one cannot identify patterns easily. For this
reason bar charts are not very popular
4. When close > open = It is a Bullish candle. When close < open = It is a Bearish
candle. The structure of the candlestick however remains the same
5. A traders should be in a position to discard noise from relevant information

___________________________________________________________________________

**Candlesticks**

1. History tends to repeat itself – we modified this assumption by adding the factor
angle
2. Candlestick patterns can be broken down into single and multiple candlestick
patterns
3. There are three important assumptions specific to candlestick patterns
	1. Buy strength and sell weakness
	2. Be flexible – quantify and verify
	3. Look for a prior trend.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Single Candlestick Patterns - (i)**

1. Marubuzo is the only pattern which violates rule number 3 i.e Look for prior trend
2. A bullish marubuzo indicates bullishness. 
	1. Buy around the closing price of a bullish marubuzo.
	2. Keep the low of the marubuzo as the stoploss.
3. A bearish marubuzo indicates bearishness
	1. Sell around the closing price of a bearish marubozu.
	2. Keep the high of the marubuzo as the stoploss
4. An aggressive trader can place the trade on the same day as the pattern forms
5. Risk averse traders can place the trade on the next day after ensuring that it obeys
rule number 1 i.e Buy strength, and Sell weakness
7. An abnormal candle lengths should not be traded
	1. Short candle indicates subdued activity
	2. Long candle indicates extreme activity, however placing stoploss becomes an issue.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Single Candlestick Patterns - (ii)**

1. A spinning top has a small real body. The upper and lower shadows are almost
equal in length
2. The colour of the spinning top does not matter. What matters is the fact that the
open and close prices are very close to each other
3. Spinning tops conveys indecision in the market with both bulls and bears being in
equal control
4. Spinning top at the top end of the rally indicates that either the bulls are taking a
pause before they can resume the uptrend further or the bears are preparing to
break the trend. In either case, the trader’s stance has to be cautious. If the trader’s
intent is to buy, he is better off buying only half the quantity and he should wait for
the markets to move in his direction
5. Spinning top at the bottom end of the rally indicates that either the bears are taking
a pause before they can resume the down trend further or the bulls are preparing
to break the trend and take the markets higher. Either case, the trader’s stance has
to be cautious. If the traders intent is to buy, he is better off buying only half the
quantity and he should wait for the markets to make the move
6. Doji’s are very similar to spinning tops. Doji also convey indecision in the market. By
definition dojis do not have a real body. However in reality, even if a wafer thin body
appears it is acceptable
7. A trader’s stance based on dojis is similar to stance taken when a spinning top
occurs

___________________________________________________________________________

**Single Candlestick Patterns - (iii)**

1. A paper umbrella has a long lower shadow and a small real body. The lower shadow
and the real body should maintain the ‘shadow to real body’ ratio. In case of the
paper umbrella the lower shadow should be at least twice the length of the real
body
2. Since the open and close prices are close to each other, the colour of the paper
umbrella should not matter
3. If a paper umbrella appears at the bottom of a down trend, it is called the ‘hammer’
4. If the paper umbrella appears at the top end of an uptrend, it is called the hanging
man
5. The hammer is a bullish pattern and one should look at buying opportunities when
it appears
6. The low of the hammer acts as the stop loss price trade
7. The hanging man is a bearish pattern which appears at the top end of the trend,
one should look at selling opportunities when it appears
8. The high of the hanging man acts as the stop loss price for the trade
9. The shooting star is a bearish pattern which appears at the top end of the trend.
One should look at shorting opportunities when a shooting star appears
10. The high of the shooting star will be the stop loss price for the trade.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Multiple Candlestick Patterns - (i)**

1. Multiple candlestick patterns evolve over two or more trading days
2. The bullish engulfing pattern evolves over two trading days. It appears at the
bottom end of downtrend. Day one is called P1 and day 2 is called P2
3. In a bullish engulfing pattern, P1 is a red candle, and P2 is a blue candle. P2’s blue
candle completely engulfs P1;s red candle
4. A risk taker initiates a long trade at the close of P2 after ensuring P1 and P2 together
form a bullish engulfing pattern. A risk averse trader will initiate the trade the day
after P2, near the close of the day
5. The stoploss for the bullish engulfing pattern is the lowest low between P1 and P2
6. The bearish engulfing pattern appears at the top end of an uptrend. P1’s blue
candle is completely engulfed by P2’s red candle
7. A risk taker initiates a short trade at the close of P2 after ensuring P1 and P2
together form a bearish engulfing pattern. The risk averse trader will initiate the
trade the day after P2, after confirming the day forms a red candle.
8. The highest high of P1 and P2 forms the stoploss for a bearish engulfing pattern
9. The presence of a doji after an engulfing pattern tends to catalyse the pattern’s
evolution.
10. The piercing pattern works very similar to bullish engulfing pattern, except that P2’s
blue candle engulfs at least 50% and below 100% of P1’s red candle
11. The dark cloud cover works similar to the bearish engulfing pattern, except that P2’s
red candle engulfs at least 50% and below 100% of P1’s blue candle.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Multiple Candlestick Patterns - (ii)**

1. The harami pattern evolves over 2 trading sessions – P1 and P2.
2. Day 1 (P1) of the pattern forms a long candle and day 2(P2) of the pattern forms a
small candle which appears as if it has been tucked inside the P1’s long candle
3. A bullish harami candle pattern is formed at the lower end of a down trend. P1 is a
long red candle, and P2 is a small blue candle. The idea is to initiate a long trade
near the close of P2 (risk taker). A risk averse trader will initiate the long trade near
the close of the day after P2 only after ensuring it forms a blue candle day
4. The stop loss on a bullish harami pattern is the lowest low price between P1 and P2
5. The bearish harami pattern is formed at the top end of an uptrend. P1 is a long blue
candle, and P2 is a small red candle. The idea is to initiate a short trade near the
close of P2 (risk taker). The risk averse will initiate the short near the close of the day
only after ensuring it is a red candle day
6. The stop loss on a bearish harami pattern is the highest high price between P1 and
P2.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Multiple Candlestick Patterns - (iii)**

1. Star formation occurs over three trading sessions. The candle of P2 is usually a doji
or a spinning top
2. If there is a doji on P2 in a star pattern, it is called a doji star (morning doji star,
evening doji star) else it is just called the star pattern (morning star, evening star)
3. Morning star is a bullish pattern which occurs at the bottom end of the trend. The
idea is to go long on P3 with the lowest low of the pattern being the stop loss for the
trade
4. Evening star is a bearish pattern, which occurs at the top end of an up trend. The
idea is to go short on P3, with the highest high of the pattern acting as a stop loss
5. The star formation evolves over a 3 days period, hence both the risk averse and risk
taker are advised to initiate the trade on P3
6. Candlesticks portray the traders thought process. One should nurture this thought
process as he dwells deeper into the candlestick study.

___________________________________________________________________________

**Support and Resistance**

1. S&R are price points on the chart
2. Support is a price point below the current market price that indicate buying interest
3. Resistance is a price point above the current market price that indicate selling
interest
4. To identify S&R, place a horizontal line in such a way that it connects at least 3 price
action zones, well spaced in time. The more number of price action zones (well
spaced in time) the horizontal line connects, the stronger is S&R
5. S&R can be used to identify targets for the trade. For a long trade, look for the
immediate resistance level as target. For a short trade, look for the immediate
support level as target.
6. Comply with the checklist for optimal trading results

___________________________________________________________________________

**Volumes**

1. Volumes are used to confirm a trend
2. 100 share buy and 100 shares sell makes the total volume 100, not 200
3. The end of day volumes indicates the cumulative volume across trades executed
throughout the day
4. High volumes indicates the presence of smart money
5. Low volumes indicate retail participation
6. When you initiate a trade to either go long or short always make sure if volumes
confirm
7. Avoid trading on low volume days

___________________________________________________________________________

**Moving Averages**

1. In a average calculation where the latest data is included, and the oldest is excluded
is called a Moving Average
2. The simple moving average (SMA) gives equal weightage to all data points in the
series
3. An exponential moving average (EMA) scales the data according to its newness.
Recent data gets the maximum weightage and the oldest gets the least weightage
4. For all practical purposes, use an EMA as opposed to SMA. This is because the EMA
gives more weightage to the most recent data points
5. The outlook is bullish when the current market price is greater than the EMA. The
outlook turns bearish when the current market price turns lesser than the EMA
6. In a non trending market, moving averages may result in whipsaws thereby causing
frequent losses. To overcome this a EMA crossover system is adopted
7. In a typical crossover system, the price chart is over laid with two EMAs. The shorter
EMA is faster to react, while the longer EMA is slower to react105
8. The outlook turns bullish when the faster EMA crosses and is above the slower EMA.
Hence one should look at buying the stock. The trade lasts upto a point where the
faster EMA starts going below the slower EMA
9. The longer the time frame one chooses for a crossover system, the lesser the
trading signals.

___________________________________________________________________________