__________________________________________________________________

**Mindset**

1. The speed at which the money doubles increases drastically the more time you stay
invested. This is one of the properties of compounding
2. Every investment has to be evaluated on two aspects – qualitative & quantitative
3. Qualitative aspects revolve around the non numeric information related to the
company
4. The quantitative aspects involve analysing numeric data. The financial statements
are the important source of finding the quantitative data.

__________________________________________________________________

**Annual Report (AR)**

1. Official communication from the company to its investors and other stakeholders
2. Best source to get information about the company; hence AR should be the default choice for the investor to source company related information.
3. It contains many sections, with each section highlighting certain aspect of the business.
4. It is also the best source to get information related to the qualitative aspects of the company.
5. The management discussion and analysis is one of the most important sections in the AR. It has the management’s perspective on the overall economy of the country, their outlook on the industry they operate in for the year gone by (what went right and what went wrong), and what they foresee for the year ahead
6. The AR contains three financial statements 
	1. Profit & Loss statement
	2. Balance Sheet
	3. Cash Flow statement
7. The standalone statement contains the financial numbers of only the company in consideration. However the consolidated numbers contains the company and its subsidiaries financial numbers.

__________________________________________________________________

**P&L Statement**

1. This financial statement provides information and conveys the financial position of the company
2. A fundamental Analyst is a user of financial statement, and he just needs to know what the maker of the financial statements states
3. The profit and loss statement gives the profitability of the company for the year under consideration
4. The P&L statement is an estimate, as the company can revise the numbers at a later point. Also by default companies publish data for the current year and the previous year, side by side
5. The revenue side of the P&L is also called the top line of the company
6. Revenue from operations is the main source of revenue for the company
7. Other operating income includes revenue incidental to the business
8. The other income includes revenue from non operating sources
9. The sum of revenue from operations (net of duty), other operating income, and other incomes gives the ‘Net Revenue from Operations'
10. The expense part of the P&L statement contains information on all the expenses incurred by the company during the financial year
11. Each expense can be studied with reference to a note which you can explore for further information
12. Depreciation and amortisation is way of spreading the cost of an asset over its useful life
13. Finance cost is the cost of interest and other charges paid when the company borrows money for its capital expenditure.
14. PBT (Profit Before Tax) = Total Revenue – Total Expense – Exceptional items (if any)
15. Net PAT = PBT – applicable taxes
16. EPS(Earning Per Share) reflects the earning capacity of a company on a per share basis. Earnings are profit after tax and preferred dividends.
17. EPS = PAT / Total number of outstanding ordinary shares

__________________________________________________________________

**Balance Sheets**

1. It is a statement which shows what the company owns (assets) and what the company owes (liabilities)
2. A business will generally need a balance sheet when it seeks investors, applies for loans, submits taxes etc.
3. Balance sheet equation is Assets = Liabilities + Shareholders’ Equity
4. Liabilities are obligations or debts of a business from past transactions and Share capital is number of shares * face value
5. Reserves are the funds earmarked for a specific purpose, which the company intends to use in future
6. Surplus is where the profits of the company reside. This is one of the points where the balance sheet and the P&L interact. Dividends are paid out of the surplus
7. Shareholders’ equity = Share capital + Reserves + Surplus. Equity is the claim of the owners on the assets of the company. It represents the assets that remain after deducting the liabilities. If you rearrange the Balance Sheet equation, Equity = Assets – Liabilities.
8. Non-current liabilities or the long term liabilities are obligations which are expected to be settled in not less than 365 days or 12 months of the balance sheet date
9. Deferred tax liabilities arise due to the discrepancy in the way the depreciation is treated. Deferred tax liabilities are amounts of income taxes payable in the future with respect to taxable differences as per accounting books and tax books.
10. Current liabilities are the obligations the company plans to settle within 365 days /12 months of the balance sheet date.
11. In most cases both long and short term provisions are liabilities dealing with employee related matters
12. Total Liability = Shareholders’ Funds + Non Current Liabilities + Current Liabilities. Thus, total liabilities represent the total amount of money the company owes to others.
13. The Assets side of the Balance sheet displays all the assets the company owns
14. Assets are classified as Non-current and Current asset
15. The useful life of Non-current assets is expected to last beyond 365 days 
16. Current assets are expected to payoff within 365 days
17. Assets inclusive of depreciation are called the ‘Gross Block’
18. Net Block = Gross Block – Accumulated Depreciation
19. The sum of all assets should equal the sum of all liabilities. Only then the Balance sheet is said to have balanced.
20. The Balance sheet and P&L statement are inseparable. They are connected to each other in many ways.

__________________________________________________________________
**Cash Flow Statement**

1. A legitimate company has 3 main activities :
	1. Operating activities
	2. Investing activities 
	3. Financing activities
2. Each activity either generates or drains money for the company
3. The net cash flow for the company is the sum of operating activities, investing activities and the financing activities
**5. Investors should specifically look at the cash flow from operating activities of the company**
6. When the liabilities increase, cash level increases and vice versa
7. When the assets increase, cash level decreases and vice versa
8. The net cash flow number for the year is also reflected in the balance sheet
9. The Statement of Cash flow is a useful addition to the financial statements of a company because it indicates the company’s performance.


__________________________________________________________________

**Financial Ratio - (i)**

1. A Financial ratio is a useful financial metric of a company. On its own merit the ratio conveys very little information
2. It is best to study the ratio’s recent trend or compare it with the company’s peers to develop an opinion
3. Financial ratios can be categorised into 
	1. ‘Profitability
	2. Leverage’
	3. Valuation
	4. Operating. 
	Each of these categories give the analyst a certain view on the company’s business
4. EBITDA = Operational expenses - Operating revenue
5. EBITDA margin indicates the percentage profitability of the company at the operating level
6. PAT margin gives the overall profitability of the firm
7. Return on Equity (ROE) is a very valuable ratio. It indicates how much return the shareholders are making over their initial investment in the company
8. A high ROE and a high debt is not a great sign
9. **DuPont Model** helps in decomposing the ROE into different parts, with each part throwing light on different aspects of the business
10. DuPont method is probably the best way to calculate the ROE of a firm
11. Return on Assets in an indicator of how efficiently the company is utilising its assets
12. Return on Capital employed indicates the overall return the company generates considering both the equity and debt.
**13. For the ratios to be useful, it should be analysed in comparison with other companies in the same industry.**
14. Also, ratios should be analysed both at a single point in time and as an indicator of broader trends over time

__________________________________________________________________

**Financial Ratios - (ii)**

1. Leverage ratios include Interest Coverage, Debt to Equity, Debt to Assets and the Financial Leverage ratios
2. The Leverage ratios mainly study the company’s debt with respect to the company’s ability to service the long term debt
3. Interest coverage ratio inspects the company’s earnings ability (at the EBIT level) as a multiple of its finance costs
4. Debt to equity ratio measures the amount of equity capital with respect to the debt capital. 
5. Debt to Asset ratio helps us understand the asset financing structure of the company (especially with respect to the debt)
6. The Financial Leverage ratio helps us understand the extent to which the assets are financed by the owner’s equity
7. The Operating Ratios also referred to as the Activity ratios include 
	1. Fixed Assets Turnover: measures the extent of the revenue generated in comparison to its investment in fixed assets
	2. Working Capital turnover: how much revenue the company generates for every unit of working capital
	3. Total Assets turnover: ability to generate revenues with the given amount of assets
	4. Inventory turnover: how many times the company replenishes its inventory during the year
	5. Inventory number of days: number of days the company takes to convert its inventory to cash
	6. Receivable turnover: how many times in a given period the company receives money from its debtors and customers
	7. Day Sales Outstanding ratios: = Average cash collection period i.e the time lag between the Billing and Collection
8. A high inventory turnover and therefore a low inventory number of days is a great combination
9. However make sure this does not come at the cost of low production capacity

__________________________________________________________________

**Financial Ratios - (iii)**

1. Valuation in general, is the estimate of the ‘worth’ of something
2. Valuation ratios involves inputs from both the P&L statement and the Balance Sheet
3. The Price to Sales ratio compares the stock price of the company with the company’s sales per share (Sales per share is simply the Sales divided by the Number of shares)
4. Sales of a company with a higher profit margin is more valuable in comparison to the sales of a company with lower profit margins
5. If a company is going bankrupt, the ‘Book Value’ of a firm is simply the amount of money left on table after the company pays off its obligations
6. Book value is usually expressed on a per share basis. The Price/BV indicates how many times the stock price is trading over and above the book value of the firm
7. EPS measures the profitability of a company on a per share basis
8. The P/E ratio indicates the willingness of market participants to pay for a stock, keeping the company’s earnings in perspective.
9. One has to be cautious about the earning manipulation while evaluating the P/E ratio
10. The Indices have a valuation which can be measured by the P/E, P/B or Dividend Yield ratio
11. It is advisable to exercise caution when the Index is trading at a valuation of 22x or above
12. A valuation gets attractive when the index is trading at 16x or below
13. The index valuations are published by NSE on their website on a daily basis

__________________________________________________________________

**Investor: Due Diligence**

1. A stock idea can come from any source. Circle of competence and General observation is a great way to start
2. It is advisable to have a watch list which includes stocks that look interesting
3. Once a stock is identified we should look for sustainable moats
4. The due diligence process involves understanding the business, running the checklist to understand its financial performance, and the valuation exercise
5. When it comes to understanding the business, one should be completely thorough with the business operations of the company
6. The checklist should be improvised as and when the investor gains investment experience
7. The DCF method is one of the best techniques to identify the intrinsic value of the business

__________________________________________________________________

**Equity Research**

1. ‘Limited Resource’ Equity Research can be performed in 3 stages
	1. Understanding the Business
	2. Application of the checklist
	3. Valuations
2. The objective of the stage 1 i.e understanding the business requires us to gather all information related to the business. The best way to go about this is the Q&A way
3. In the Q&A way, we begin with posting some simple and straightforward questions for which we find answers
4. By the time we finish stage 1, we should be through with all the information related to the business
5. Most of the answers required in stage 1 is present in the company’s annual report and website
6. Do remember while researching the company in stage 1, if there is something not very convincing about the company, it is often a good idea to stop researching further.
7. It is very important for you get convinced (based on true facts) about the company in stage 1. This is how you will develop a strong conviction to stay put during bear markets
8. Stage 2 of Equity Research requires you to evaluate the performance of the company on various counts.
9. You will proceed to stage 3 only after the company clears in stage 1 & 2.

__________________________________________________________________

**DCF Primer**

1. A valuation model such as the DCF model helps us estimate the price of a stock
2. The DCF model is made up of several inter woven financial concepts
3. The ‘Time Value of Money’ is one of the most crucial concept in finance, as it finds its application in several financial concepts including the DCF method
4. The value of money cannot be treated the same across the time scale – which means the value of money in today’s terms is not really the same at some point in the future
5. To compare money across time we have to ‘time travel the money’ after accounting for the opportunity cost
6. Future Value of money is the estimation of the value of money we have today at some point in the future
7. Present value of money is the estimation of the value of money receivable in the future in terms of today’s value
8. The Net Present Value (NPV) of money is the sum of all the present values of the future cash flows
9. The free cash flow (FCF) for the company is calculated by deducting the capital expenditures from the net cash from operating activates
10. The free cash flow tracks the money left over for the investors
11. The latest year FCF is used to forecast the future year’s cash flow
12. The growth rate at which the FCF is grown has to be conservative
13. Terminal growth rate is the rate at which the company’s cash flow is supposed to grow beyond the terminal year
14. The terminal value is the value of the cash flow the company generates from the terminal year upto infinity
15. The future cash flow including the terminal value has to be discounted back to today’s value
16. The sum of all the discounted cash flows (including the terminal value) is the total net present value of cash flows
17. From the total net present value of cash flows, the net debt has to be adjusted. Dividing this by the total number of shares gives us the per share value of the company
18. One needs to accommodate for modeling errors by including a 10% band around the share price
19. By including a 10% leeway we create a intrinsic value band
20. Stock trading below the range is considered a good buy, while the stock price above the intrinsic value band is considered expensive
21. Wealth is created by long term ownership of undervalued stocks. Thus, the DCF analysis helps the investors to identify whether the current share price of the company is justified or not.

__________________________________________________________________

